MONICA DINCULESCU:
What is my personality?
SURMA: A-plus.
That's an A-plus.
JAKE: Yeah, your
personality is correct.
Like, because that--
SURMA: Your
personality is correct!
MONICA DINCULESCU:
Oh, thank God.
JAKE: Well done.
It's not defective.
You can keep it.
It doesn't need to go
into the store for repair.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Who are you and why?
MONICA DINCULESCU: Yes, very
well, thank you for asking.
I am Monica, and
because I can be.
Somebody has to be,
so it can only be me.
JAKE: That's a good answer.
MONICA DINCULESCU: Thank you.
SURMA: That went deep.
What-- what do you talk about?
What is your plan for I/O?
What sounds are you going
to make on stage here?
MONICA DINCULESCU: Mouth sounds.
SURMA: Mouth sounds?
MONICA DINCULESCU: Yes.
JAKE: That's good, because
I tried a different way.
[LAUGHTER]
It did not go well.
SURMA: Not a popular
session, I've heard.
MONICA DINCULESCU: You would.
I am making mouth sounds
about the PWA starter kit.
So my team has been building
this awesome bunch of templates
that you can use.
And you can pick them up
and you can build a PWA.
And we try to do most
of the heavy lifting
for you, so that you don't have.
JAKE: Is this a
kind of similar tool
to like Yeoman or Preact CLI?
Is that similar to
this sort of thing?
SURMA: That was buzzword-y.
Jesus.
MONICA DINCULESCU: Yeah.
So we looked at a
whole bunch of CLIs,
and we saw what they were
doing, and we tried to--
SURMA: And you deemed it wrong.
MONICA DINCULESCU:
Well, a lot of them
deal with starting
up with a framework,
whereas starting out with a
PWA is a little bit different.
Because what you're trying
to do is make like a fairly
framework-agnostic,
work-with-everything--
SURMA: Yeah.
MONICA DINCULESCU: --PWA.
So ours tries to use
things off the shelf,
so we have Redux for
state management.
We didn't invent our own.
We're using lit-elemental
HTML for the rendering.
JAKE: That sounds
like a framework.
SURMA: Yeah.
A little bit.
MONICA DINCULESCU: It's like 2k.
You find me a
framework that's 2k.
It's not a framework.
SURMA: So I've heard--
that's a Redux thing.
Redux-- Redux?
MONICA DINCULESCU: Redux.
SURMA: Redux.
MONICA DINCULESCU: Redux?
SURMA: I've heard
that word a lot.
MONICA DINCULESCU: Yeah.
SURMA: I still don't
know what it is.
It's like Flux Redux
and React Redux.
It's always in there, but
I don't know what it is.
MONICA DINCULESCU: It's
a tiny state container.
It's like a very
glorified key-value store.
And it has a whole bunch of
patterns, what you can do
and can't do with your data.
The whole point being there
is one source of truth,
only the store has
access to your data.
SURMA: So that's the thing where
you connect your elements--
MONICA DINCULESCU: Yeah.
SURMA: --and they get updates
when something changes.
MONICA DINCULESCU: Yeah.
An element can care about
data getting updated,
or wants to
communicate that data
needs to be updated, but can
never just poke at the data,
because that's gross.
JAKE: But I thought that
was a react thing, right?
MONICA DINCULESCU: No.
Redux is a framework-agnostic,
view-independent thingamajig.
SURMA: You've practiced this.
MONICA DINCULESCU: I do.
I have a slide.
I have it in the
palace of my mind.
JAKE: OK.
So yeah.
So it can work with
any framework--
MONICA DINCULESCU:
Yeah, which is
why it's really popular,
because you can just
jam it into anything.
And a whole bunch of frameworks
have like little adapters,
so that it makes it easier
inside of their framework.
But you can just use vanilla
Redux with no problems.
JAKE: You sort of-- you threw
down, like, lit-element--
MONICA DINCULESCU: I did.
JAKE: --like that's a thing.
MONICA DINCULESCU: You
haven't heard of it, Jake?
God.
It's already,
like, two days old.
JAKE: I'm so far behind.
MONICA DINCULESCU:
Yes, so, lit-html
is a tiny little library
that Justin wrote last year.
And it basically lets
you render templates--
HTML templates-- in JavaScript.
And it's super fast
because it's super optimal
about how it re-renders
them and stuff like that.
And lit-element--
SURMA: It's like they did the
little value bindings thingy,
right?
MONICA DINCULESCU: Yeah.
And lit-element
does the same thing,
where we took lit-html and took
all of that rendering logic
and put it in a custom
element base class.
So it has things that
you're familiar with.
It has a render method, so
that that gets called when
your properties get updated.
And whatever you put
in your render method
is basically magic
because it's JavaScript.
You can go to town
if you want to.
And other tiny little
helpers, like lifecycle
helpers, that you might
need in a custom element.
SURMA: I mean, that seems like--
what I know from [INAUDIBLE]
is like it's almost individual,
tiny, little helpers that
will use everything-- buy
everything all at once.
It seems like something that
your team is doing well.
MONICA DINCULESCU:
And now we can get rid
of a lot of what
Polymer 1 used to have,
because four browsers
almost have custom elements.
JAKE: So what is the
status, in terms of that?
Because, I'd just like to say,
my project, Service Worker,
has just shipped
in all browsers.
So where are we
with your project?
MONICA DINCULESCU: Is that
all you've been doing?
JAKE: Oh, yeah.
OK.
[LAUGHTER]
I-11 doesn't have it.
MONICA DINCULESCU:
So we have Chrome.
We have Safari.
JAKE: Good.
MONICA DINCULESCU: We
have custom elements
and Firefox behind a flag.
And I've heard Shadow
DOM is very close.
JAKE: Oh.
OK.
SURMA: Rumors!
MONICA DINCULESCU:
And that is the end.
SURMA: Good ones, though.
MONICA DINCULESCU: I mean--
and probably Opera and--
JAKE: Oh, because-- yeah.
SURMA: Opera--
JAKE: All the Chrome.
MONICA DINCULESCU:
Yeah, all the Chrome.
SURMA: Yeah.
MONICA DINCULESCU:
We do not have Edge.
We have interest from Edge, but
not implementation from Edge.
JAKE: What's the state
of polyfills, then,
if people wanted to
use your stuff today?
MONICA DINCULESCU: They exist.
JAKE: Good.
SURMA: They've existed
for a long time.
A month.
MONICA DINCULESCU: Yeah.
So polyfills have
existed for a long time.
We've updated the polyfills
to work with modules,
now that HTML imports are
kind of on the dying end.
So we've switched to using
modules for everything.
And the polyfills
also work with modules
and don't try to import HTML
imports and stuff like that.
JAKE: So with the
HTML imports, that
would have your styles
in there, and then
the definitions for
your custom elements.
How does that look
in a module world?
MONICA DINCULESCU: So, in
a module world, all of that
looks together, but
in a giant, you know,
template JavaScript literal.
This is what a template
literal looks like.
SURMA: I mean,
yeah, with lit HTML,
it makes sense
because you already
have your markup in an HTML
template tag string literal
anyway, so it kind of
just adds some styles.
MONICA DINCULESCU: Yeah.
SURMA: Put the markup in there.
MONICA DINCULESCU: So
we've updated ShadyDOM
to work with that so you
can have a module that
exports a style node
with all its goodness,
and import it as a squiggle
inside of your render function.
SURMA: I think that's
actually a proper keyword.
It's a squiggle.
MONICA DINCULESCU: What
do you call the squiggles?
JAKE: Code braces?
MONICA DINCULESCU: Yeah.
Squiggles.
SURMA: Imported with a squiggle.
I like that.
JAKE: Imported with a squiggle.
That's your new
tag-line for polymer.
MONICA DINCULESCU: Thank you.
JAKE: I think that's good.
So we've been doing some work
with web components recently,
and my feeling is the polyfill
for straight-up custom elements
is super light and small and
great, and everything's happy.
But my feeling with the
Shadow DOM polyfills--
MONICA DINCULESCU:
Yeah, it turns out
reinventing the DOM in
JavaScript is really hard.
Who saw that coming?
SURMA: It's not an easy problem.
MONICA DINCULESCU: It's
not an easy problem.
And the problem is it's
not really the DOM.
It's the CSS parts--
SURMA: It's a
scoping thing, right?
MONICA DINCULESCU: --and telling
CSS that it needs to update
and runs some styles
when things update.
So that's what makes it hard.
So if you're using
all of them together,
it's very easy because you get
a callback when all of them
have rendered.
But mostly, you have
to take a template
and be like, hey, Shady DOM
and CSS, here's a template.
Do your thing so that--
you imbibe it with magic
so that it works later.
JAKE: If we're
building stuff now
with the hope of it
sort of being there
in the future, where all
browser support [INAUDIBLE]
web components
things, should people
be sort of avoiding
Shadow DOM for now?
MONICA DINCULESCU:
No, I like it.
JAKE: No?
We should go all
in on Shadow DOM?
MONICA DINCULESCU:
Shadow DOM is--
JAKE: Stuff's not
going to break?
MONICA DINCULESCU: --very
good if you need Shadow DOM.
Shadow DOM gives
you encapsulation.
SURMA: Now that's the
worst tag-line I've seen.
MONICA DINCULESCU:
[DISGRUNTLED NOISE] No,
"Shadow DOM hides
you in a corner"
is probably the worst tag-line.
JAKE: I like, "Shadow DOM,
it's there if you need it."
That's a very
wholesome tag-line.
MONICA DINCULESCU: If you're
like a reusable component
library-- you're
Vaadin or Ionic--
and you're making a button-- or
you're a design system instead
of a big company--
you're making a button.
That button has to always be
that kind of shade of blue.
You want Shadow DOM for that.
You don't want anybody poking
and prodding it, being like,
your shade of blue is
slightly incorrect.
I'll just add my
fourteenth shade of blue
to this application, right?
You want Shadow DOM for that.
But if you're building the
top view of an application,
maybe you want something like a
jQuery plugin to work in there.
Maybe that's not going
to work with Shadow DOM.
Maybe that's a thing that you
don't want encapsulation for.
JAKE: So I tried to
build a web component
of doing syntax highlighting.
MONICA DINCULESCU: Yeah.
JAKE: So just an element,
you put your code in.
It syntax highlights it.
And it felt like Shadow
DOM was a good choice
there because it's going to
hide all of those extra elements
that I needed to do that
syntax highlighting.
But I was worried about the
amount of extra polyfill
I'm going to need to do that.
But also, how do I get
user styling in there
if they wanted to change
the syntax highlighting?
MONICA DINCULESCU: Oh man, do
I have exciting news for you.
JAKE: Ready-- no, no.
I'm not ready.
MONICA DINCULESCU:
Are you ready?
JAKE: Yes.
Yeah, I'm ready.
OK.
MONICA DINCULESCU:
There's a new spec.
I'm very excited about it.
It's called Part and Theme.
And it basically works how--
JAKE: Part and Theme.
MONICA DINCULESCU:
Part and Theme.
They come together as a couple.
Well, actually, they
come as cousins.
JAKE: As a couple?
Oh, gosh, this is sounding
really bad already.
So they're a couple.
They're cousins.
MONICA DINCULESCU: No.
JAKE: And this is
something we all want?
MONICA DINCULESCU: No, no.
SURMA: I think we
shouldn't shame them.
MONICA DINCULESCU:
You're a monster.
MONICA DINCULESCU: No.
So Part is basically-- when
you're building a custom
element, it lets you
specify little divs,
or little elements, that a
user might want to style.
And you put a part on them,
and you give them a name.
Say, if you are
an input element,
you would call them
a webkit placeholder,
or a webkit spinner up,
and webkit spinner down--
JAKE AND SURMA: Oh.
MONICA DINCULESCU: --those
are basically the parts
that input exposes for styling.
So then you could do this
too, as a custom element.
And you'd be like, these are
the bases that you can style.
And then you can use them.
You can use pseudo
selectors and hovers
and shit like that on
them, and they work.
SURMA: So the fun fact
is that we invited you
to this CSS working group
because of these two
new things--
MONICA DINCULESCU: Yes.
SURMA: --and then we
didn't talk about them.
MONICA DINCULESCU: Correct.
But then I learned how
layouting works, so it's fine.
SURMA: You're also a member
of the Emoji Committee,
and that's something where we
actually know what's going on.
MONICA DINCULESCU:
Sub-committee, thank you.
Emoji Sub-committee.
SURMA: Sorry.
So how is there no shark emoji,
but there is a dinosaur emoji?
MONICA DINCULESCU: Do you
know how much people have
whined for the dinosaur emoji?
Do you know how many people
asked for the dinosaur emoji?
SURMA: No, I don't.
But it's not a real animal.
I mean, it's real.
It doesn't exist anymore.
While a shark--
MONICA DINCULESCU:
There's floppy disks,
and they don't exist anymore.
SURMA: That's art.
JAKE: Oh.
MONICA DINCULESCU:
So emoji get accepted
based on how many people--
it's not necessarily how
many people request them,
but how popular that concept is.
And if you search for
dinosaur on Google,
you'll find a bunch of results
because a lot of people
talk about dinosaurs.
And when you're trying
to text somebody,
you would like a
representation of a dinosaur.
I agree that sharks
should also be there.
Maybe nobody proposed it.
JAKE: Is that what we're
saying, is that dinosaurs
are more popular than sharks?
SURMA: I can get behind
that statement, honestly.
MONICA DINCULESCU: This feels
a lot like "Shark Week,"
and I am uncomfortable
with that statement,
on behalf of all
sharks out there.
Maybe nobody proposed a shark.
We don't propose emoji.
People propose emoji.
We just review them.
JAKE: So can we get
a HTTP203 emoji?
What's the process?
How do we start that?
And what characters would
you have to combine?
SURMA: So first, we need to
get a Surma and Jake emoji--
MONICA DINCULESCU: Oh, my god.
You guys, there is this emoji.
This emoji exists.
It's like the two bunny boys.
There were the two bunny
girls, and now there's
the two bunny boys.
JAKE: Well, I
thought, for me, it
would have to be the
boy emoji and then
the white color, and then
the white color, and
the white color again.
And then it would be
like, that's Jake.
MONICA DINCULESCU: Shockingly,
your shade of white
is not on the Fitzpatrick
scale quite yet.
JAKE: We need to invent a new
color space, I think, for--
it's whatever's after HDR.
MONICA DINCULESCU: The
reflective color space.
JAKE: We've had to do
all sorts of gymnastics
with covers to stop me just
kind of exploding the cameras.
MONICA DINCULESCU: Yeah,
they paid no attention
to Surma and I, and they
set up lighting for you
for 45 minutes.
JAKE: Yeah, I know.
SURMA: Otherwise,
he's just a reflector.
I become lighter because the
sun reflects off his face.
MONICA DINCULESCU: I burned
some light bulbs in my kitchen,
if you want to just
come hang out there.
JAKE: We're going to link to
your talk in the show notes.
MONICA DINCULESCU: Yes.
JAKE: Which you haven't
given yet, but--
MONICA DINCULESCU:
It's going to be great.
SURMA: How will
your audience have
reacted by the point
you've given your talk?
MONICA DINCULESCU: It's going
to be amazing, best talk ever.
No talking comes second to it.